Hey guys welcome back.
OK last few lectures I've been explaining how to use different set ups to get the type of marketing
video you want covered the fundamentals of lighting audio and video.
And then if you understand the basics of each Well you should be able to put together pretty nice and
effective sets for yourself to shoot it.
Now the main concern when you shoot is always going to be getting great footage of your primary subject.
Maybe it's your expert doing explainer video about how mobile apps are developed.
Or you might be interviewing some clients for a testimonial video about the success they had with your
product.
Those people are the main subjects of your video and the footage you get of them is what people in the
film and video biz call a role.
Now this is the most important footage of the video and it probably makes up the majority of what gets
seen.
April is the footage that is kind of like the baseline footage.
It carries the narrative forward.
It's the original speaker it's the main subject it's usually what you start and what you end with.
But it wouldn't obviously make up the entire video right like we wouldn't have a wisteria shot of me
just talking for ever without anything coming up on screen or anything else happening because while
staring at the same person for three or four minutes straight in a marketing video situation would get
boring.
How an online course.
I'm sure you're not bored at all.
Now you obviously have to mix it up and people need breaks to keep their attention span that's really
important especially if you're doing things like ads or any type of video that can help you with conversion
or sales.
So this lecture right here is going to be about how you can use additional kinds of shots of video elements
to make your video even better.
We're to cover some of the common shots you might see.
And also common concepts that are important to know but couldn't really get their own lecture.
So the first kind of video that I want to mention is what's called B roll and it's arguably the most
common type of video that marketing videos have in them.
Now let's obviously aside from the payroll if the role is the main person talking the subject is being
lit focused on and they're the one carrying the narrative.
Can you guess what the bee role is.
Well B-roll shots are videos of related people places and things that complement the main part of the
video.
It helps reinforce what people are talking about.
So for example you might make a video talking about the wonderful health boost you can get from running
a bike.
Cool.
It gets the heart pumping you get fresh air and it's a wonderful thing etc. etc..
Well as interesting as the topic is and as good looking as the speaker you might be showing that same
shot of someone talking and talking for a long period of time really not that exciting.
So what we do is we use B-roll to jazz up the video insert shots of related things.
Now in this case it could be a shot of the product itself nicely lit and showed from different angles
or it might be the person who's talking but instead them using the product demonstrating how it works.
Talking to people laughing or anything if I'm telling a story about how I visited a company well it's
probably important that the B-roll shows me visiting that company if I'm doing a video about the culture
of my business and my co-founders of all of them videos of us talking and laughing and eating and drinking
our coffee and etc. etc. it would be great B-roll to kind of fill in this visual for the person watching
now bureaux might be used to show where a product could be used.
Maybe there's a specific place or maybe it's everywhere or you could show where people can buy your
product like in a store or on a Web site.
Now this whole time all the B-roll has been rolling on the screen the speaker from your roles is still
going to be talking it's not like they just stopped randomly and then cut to a video.
Unless of course you guys have seen some of my videos where I do that for dramatic effect but it's more
to be funny than actually like professional anyways or Usually you have a role still talking still delivering
that information that you want to get across.
So not including the b roll you just made the video a lot more interesting and compelling and it's generally
pretty easy stuff to collect.
The best way to incorporate B rolls Dyster to plan for it in your script.
For example if you're talking about your product performing some action and will then write in your
script.
We need to get a shot of someone using the product doing something similar to what I'm saying in the
actual script or of your speakers just going to be talking for a long period of time and you don't have
anything for someone to look at or anything happening while you can make marks of it in your script
to say we need something here to break it up.
Just make sure to know all of the B-roll shots you need because you'll need to either shoot it yourself
or you can buy stock video footage.
Now I don't generally suggest buying stock footage unless you are really strapped for stuff like you
really need something or there's some B-roll that you want that's really difficult.
So there's a company called Video blocks.
They're probably the best place I know of to get cheap stock footage a lot of stock footage is incredibly
expensive but you can get all sorts of things from you know really really handsome people in suits and
laughing about something to a drone flying over San Francisco two kids playing soccer or whatever it
is you need.
But generally you can tell that it's it's like a stock photo.
But you know the video version of it now B-roll has become so common that videographers out there shoot
all kinds of B-roll and then they just sell it on web sites.
Another one you might say or like I stock photo will they also video.
So if you really want to up your production now you make your video look quite a bit better and more
engaging.
Absolutely include B-roll.
It's one of the easiest things to do and it really really improves the quality of the video.
It's awfully hard to do if you're doing a lot of videos like for instance if I'm recording this for
10 hours I can't make 10 hours of B-roll.
I mean any noted show after a certain point but if you're doing like a promo video a lot of promo video
is like 90 seconds to two minutes long the other filled with B-roll.
Now if you have something like a program or an app that you want to demonstrate or walk through in your
video Well then a screen cast is going to be another great solution you can use.
Now screencast if you never heard this term before most you guys probably have to re record the screen
to demonstrate how something on the computer works to show the action someone's taking in an app or
both.
But you don't put the camera in front of the screen and then hit record.
That generally doesn't look very good.
However if you guys want to do that and it's something I have done occasionally and promo videos he
has put in the resources a link to a video where they actually talked about how you can do it correctly.
It's quite it's quite difficult but when most people do is they'll use a screen recorder program to
record what's happening on the screen not just you know playing directly out and step on the screen
as you can show the entire screen but also zoom in on specific areas to emphasize something or you can
highlight an area or darken area or blur out something I'm not supposed to see.
Whatever this is can really help the viewer follow along with any instructions you might be going through.
Now another option with your screen cast is record it yourself at the same time while you record the
screen.
You can also record yourself using your built in webcam or your USP camera connected to your computer.
This way the viewer can see you speaking and also see what you're doing on the computer.
It's a nice thing to include sometimes because you can see the person's reactions to things.
For some videos like longer screencast walk.
There's that web cam shot of the speaker or standard Capshaw is a nice way to keep viewers interested
because they see a real person being there with them.
The guys have taken become a growth marketer.
We have a lot of that.
You'll see that a lot where we'll be on a screen cast with the laptop slightly out of view of the camera
just like this.
And then we'll be navigating a site.
We're also doing this course although the technique is a little bit different.
The guys you probably notice now if you're looking for screencast recording software I kind of mentioned
this a little bit before.
But there's really two great options and I'm sure there's other ones.
But personally these probably have all you need.
One is Camp Tasia and the other is screen flow.
Now screen PLO's Mac only and it's kind of its focus is being on it's being simple.
It's really simple to use.
It doesn't it's not terribly feature rich but if you don't need to bog yourself down a hundred and one
features and this is the way to go there are a PC that I generally suggest eating camp Tasia which is
pretty powerful.
It has a lot of stuff in it and if you really want to work with your screen casts Well you know there's
a lot you can do if you don't want to pay for anything.
There's one called screencast matic.
You know it's decent.
It gets the job done.
But the point is that you can record up to 15 minutes of video with it for free.
So if you're only making 50 minute videos then well you can go pretty far with that.
Now sometimes you want to show a long process but you don't need to explain every single little bit
of it.
Here's where you can use a timelapse shot now time what shots or sped up videos that show the passage
of time or progress on a screen very quickly.
For example you could shoot somewhat illustrating a portrait that takes 15 to 20 minutes in real life
and it's been sped up to three and a half minute video or whatever time I was there.
Nice because you can explain something once and if it's a step that has to be repeated over and over
well you quickly show the rest of it using that lapse without boring the viewer.
Now it's also great when you're explaining a process that it takes way longer to do the process than
it takes to explain it.
Protip on this one if you want to shoot a timelapse use the settings on your camera.
OK like your iPhone will have time lapse setting on it.
Your cameral have a timelapse sitting on it and most potent point and shoot will do it as well.
Now why use your camera as opposed to just later on just speeding up the video editing.
Well actually time lapses are just tons and tons of photos just stitched together over a long period
of time and it takes an enormous amount of footage and storage.
If you're going to do it with a regular recording that you speed up also the quality is just a bit lower.
You'd have to actually just go and google this and you can see on YouTube comparisons between the two.
Generally speaking just try to use the inbuilt camera function to do this and create a time lapse video
of your own well you just need to place it somewhere for an extended period of time and put it on the
timelapse setting.
You don't want to move it or even touch it because that will really screw it up time as it only work
when you're not moving.
This is random and anecdotal but guess what.
A timelapse is called when you're moving that's called a hyper lapse.
I don't know why you need to know that but now you do.
By the way time lapses really do make for great B-roll if you need to show the passage of time a cool
skyline shot of a city over ours.
Well you can speed that stuff up to 10 15 seconds whatever you need.
And in fact a good stock photo and all those other stock video places a lot of them have like city skyline
and that's generally kind of the only time I'd say use stock footage because you're not going to go
run a drone and make that so they have a really really good versions of it.
So we've talked about ways to complement your video different kinds of footage.
But if you have a lot of things you want to include like lots of shots of people using your product
will it be nice to show different people using an app or using it in a lot of different places right.
Well if you have lots of shots you want to group together you can create It's called a montage now montages
when you group related shots together to demonstrate the passage of time like showing progress or a
variety of related things like my example with lots of different people using the same app.
Now you can show these shots in order if you wanted to show the actual progress.
For example if you wanted to show how easy it was to build a garden in your backyard maybe your hardware
store that sells all the supplies Well you could quickly show a series of shots.
No more than a few seconds each where you show the progress of a garden being built while the speaker
talks you through the steps.
You know first be clear the area then we dig holes and after we do all that raking stuff I don't actually
know how to build a garden but that's in my head how it works.
But if you have the steps and you to share them with somebody well you can list them and then just show
them no other kind of montages it's just so a variety of people or things in no particular order.
Now here's a video from an on Audi car dealership in Seattle and they use a montage of B-roll shots
showing people the grand opening of the dealership to kind of set the scene.
You see shots of all of the different stuff.
And then they cut to an interview shot as the April with a mix of different kinds of shots video has
some energy to it making it easy to watch and not too boring.
OK.
There's one more type of shot I wanted to mention and it's actually a type of camera angle you've probably
seen before.
Now what this is is called a V point of view shot out of these shots are shots of the camera axes the
person's eyes showing you exactly what they might see.
Appeal of the shot might be useful if you want the viewer to feel like they are experiencing something
like touring a location or riding in a vehicle or in the case of this GoPro video both.
So that makes sense.
Take your camera and hold it or you know attach it yourself and walk around look at things and pretend
to be a person instead of just a camera.
Sure he's a go pro to capture all this footage.
Just make sure it makes sense in the context of your video and make sure that the settings are the same
Go Pro settings are often quite a bit lower quality than your main camera.
And when you stitch those back and sometimes they can create a nasty transition each time you use a
different kind of video type whether it's a montage of V or stock footage is B-roll.
Well it needs to make sense and obviously complement the main part of your video.
The worst thing you could do is make something that's not related enough to what you're saying.
So it ends up being distracting.
So obviously make good choices and your video should work out pretty well.
All right guys.
That's a grand summary of what are other types of shots that people use all the time.
If you use these you can make amazing videos.
Time lapses are awesome montages are awesome and B-roll really is the key to making a well-polished
video.
There's no video out there that while I mean no professional corporate video out there that doesn't
have B-roll and then it would be considered very good.
Anyway guys that's it.
That's what I think I will see you guys in the next lecture.